---
title: "Files and Folders"
marp: true
class: invert
---

# File Extensions

- Enable them in your file explorer
- Can switch them back and forth

---

# Binary Vs. Plain Text


- Can open plain text files in a text editor (
  and manually modify them), but you can't with binary
  files
- Binary is more compressed
- Can version control plain text files

---

## Examples
- plain text
  - markdown
  - python files
  - txt file
  - CSV files
  - json files
- binary
  - excel
  - word
  - parquet

---

# Data File Formats

- JSON
- CSV


---
# Folder Structure


This is about the folder structure on your computer.

---

## Fast Facts

- Mac and linux usually use forward slashes `/`. Windows uses backslashes `\`.
  - In many programming languages (including python), the backslash is an escape character, so you have to use two backslashes `\\` to get one.



---

There are two folders that are of particular importance: your user folder, and your OneDrive folder.


---

## User Folder

- Your user folder is usually in `/Users/<your-name>`. So, mine is in `/Users/grantsmith`.
- You have free reign in here. You usually don't need admin to do things here, and you can't break things as much when operating here.
- When you do things above that folder is sometimes when you need admin and when you can break things.

---

## OneDrive Folder

- Oftentimes IT will suggest that you work in your OneDrive folder or one of its subfolders. In this course, we won't do that.
  - Putting things in OneDrive can be nice because work is saved, but it can be a pain.
  - Oftentimes when programming, software will be installed in the folder you're working in. So if you're working in OneDrive, it will try to upload all that software that you install, which you don't want.
  -
